FF153 CSS basic shape closest-/farthest-corner (#44827)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/values/basic-shape/ellipse/index.md

### Values

- `<shape-radius>`

>   - : Two radii, x and y in that order. These may be a {{cssxref("length")}}, a {{cssxref("percentage")}}, or any of the following keyword values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Two radii, x and y, in that order. These may be a {{cssxref("length")}}, a {{cssxref("percentage")}}, or any of the following keyword values:
```

    - `closest-side`
      - : The radius is the length from the center of the ellipse to the closest side of the reference box in the given radius direction, so that the ellipse's boundary just touches that side.
    - `farthest-side`
      - : The radius is the length from the center of the ellipse to the farthest side of the reference box in the given radius direction, so that the ellipse's boundary just touches that side.
    - `closest-corner`
      - : The radius is the length from the center of the ellipse to the closest corner of the reference box in the given radius direction.
    - `farthest-corner`

>       - : The radius is the length from the center of the ellipse to the farthest corner of the reference box in the given radius direction.

Author: FYI this is what is observed in the Radius example below, and is reasonable. However it doesn't quite match the spec wording. I'm testing that in https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=2037673#c18. I don't think that should block this though.

Author: Note. This is a known spec inconsistency. However it is what both safari and FF do, so remains the right thing to document until issue resolved.

```html live-sample___ellipse-keywords-interactive
<div class="controls">
  <div class="controls-row">
    <label>
      X radius:
      <select id="radius-x-keyword">
        <option value="closest-side">closest-side</option>
        <option value="closest-corner">closest-corner</option>
        <option value="farthest-side">farthest-side</option>
        <option value="farthest-corner" selected>farthest-corner</option>
      </select>
    </label>
    <label>
      Y radius:
      <select id="radius-y-keyword">
        <option value="closest-side">closest-side</option>
        <option value="closest-corner">closest-corner</option>
        <option value="farthest-side" selected>farthest-side</option>
        <option value="farthest-corner">farthest-corner</option>
      </select>
    </label>
  </div>
  <div class="controls-row">
    <label>
      Position X:
      <input type="range" id="pos-x" min="0" max="200" value="120" />
    </label>
    <label>
      Position Y:
      <input type="range" id="pos-y" min="0" max="120" value="40" />
    </label>
  </div>
</div>

<pre id="declaration"></pre>

<p id="support-note"></p>
```

> The HTML then defines a number of {{htmlelement("div")}} elements that are used to render the ellipse, reference box and center marker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HTML then defines several {{htmlelement("div")}} elements used to render the ellipse, reference box, and center marker.
```

The most important elements are the reference box (`#refbox`) and the `.fill` element it contains, which define the gradient that is drawn (as discussed in the following CSS section).
A `clipPath` is set on the reference box in JavaScript to clip that gradient to an elliptical shape.

```html live-sample___ellipse-keywords-interactive
<div class="canvas">
  <div class="refbox" id="refbox">
    <div class="fill"></div>
  </div>
  <div class="outline"></div>
  <div class="center-marker" id="center-marker"></div>
</div>
```

Note that the `.outline` and `.center-marker` are provided to make it easier to see the reference box and the center of the clipping ellipse, which would otherwise be invisible.
The `.outline` element must be placed after `#refbox` in the markup: since it isn't clipped itself, painting it after the reference box means its dashed border always renders on top of the `.fill` gradient, even when the clipping ellipse extends beyond the reference box.

#### CSS

> The CSS for the canvas, reference box and fill elements are shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CSS for the canvas, reference box, and fill elements is shown below.
```

  box-sizing: border-box;
}

.fill {
  position: absolute;
  inset: -240px;
  background: linear-gradient(to bottom right, #ff5522, #0055ff);
}
```

The CSS for the controls and other elements is not shown, as it isn't needed to understand the `ellipse()` method.
Interested readers can view it in the example playground.

```css live-sample___ellipse-keywords-interactive hidden
body {
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  gap: 20px;
  align-items: flex-start;
}

.controls {
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  gap: 20px;
}

.controls-row {
  display: flex;
  flex-wrap: wrap;
  gap: 20px;
  align-items: center;
}
```

```css live-sample___ellipse-keywords-interactive hidden
.outline {
  position: absolute;
  top: 180px;
  left: 220px;
  width: 200px;
  height: 120px;
  box-sizing: border-box;
}

.outline {
  border: 3px dashed #e6007a;
  pointer-events: none;
}

.center-marker {
  position: absolute;
  width: 10px;
  height: 10px;
  border-radius: 50%;
  background: white;
  border: 2px solid black;
  transform: translate(-50%, -50%);
  pointer-events: none;
}

#declaration {
  margin: 0;
}

#support-note {
  margin: 0;
  color: #b3001b;
}
```

#### JavaScript

> The JavaScript for the example is shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Again, I don't think this is needed.

> First we get handles to each of the elements used by the example.

Reviewer: As mentioned in the `circle()` page review, split the following code block into two, and have the respective bits of explanation for the handles and `checkSupport()` put over the top of each one.

Author: @chrisdavidmills Absolutely. Done.

> Then we define `checkSupport()` to feature-test whether each radius keyword is supported and enable/disable the associated options in both dropdowns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then we define a `checkSupport()` function to feature-test whether each radius keyword is supported and enable/disable the associated options in both dropdowns.
```
